---
layout: post
date: 2020-09-22
tags: [infosec, hack-the-box, powershell, parenting, aspergers]
---

Today has solely consisted of playing around/struggling with the
hack-the-box devel machine. While there are write ups of how to do this
machine(including ones that I have done in the past, which I only have
a very foggy recollection of), I am trying to work through this as nearly
on my own as I can. I think I have a basic plan of attack and have been
able to get an unelevated shell by uploading a .asp webshell that I was
able to use to run a netcat shell that I hosted on a SMB server. Right now
I am reviewing my powershell knowledge(mostly as an excuse to do this,
I know that I could just look up the specifc way to do this) so that I can
try to run the sherlock.ps1 exploit discoverer from the smb server. I know
that I could use metasploit or the windows-vuln python script, but I would
like to see if I can get it to work doing it this way. 

- Reading:

	- Finished throught the end of chapter 3 of [The Explosive Child](https://amzn.to/2RPWSIj). 

   There are a lot of strategies in here that I think will be helpful for
our somewhat aspie son. It is a bit funny as what the author (or at least
his editors) describes as an "explosive child" seems to fit the
description of children with Aspergers (mild ASD according to DSM 5)
exactly. It does make me wonder if many of the children labeled as
"explosive" or "difficult" really are Aspies at heart. A book title
*Learning to Mitigate the Meltdowns of Your Child With Asperger's* would
sell considerably fewer copies though. 

    Either way, it appears that many of the strategies and the mindset
that the author asserts are sound. He says they are backed up by years of
academic research. I haven't had the chance to read the research he is
refering to. Or even to see if he has included citations in the back of
the book...yeah, I need to do that.

    However, trying to adopt the mind set that children that act like this
do not possess the tools to deal with many situations and therefore the
goal to have as a parent is to try to help the child gain the tools to
deal with a situation appears to be sound. I tried to engage this strategy
as best I understood it at bed time and to a situation involving a broken
flashlight. It seemed to be quite effective, he did a much better job
dealing with both situations when I was able to help him figure out how do
the things that he either wanted or knew that he needed to do. The topic
of *problem solving* may require its own post or series of posts in the
future.

Overall I am quite impressed so far and highly recommend it to any parents
with either Aspies or "explosive" kids.

	- Chapter 8 of [The Twilight of the God](https://amzn.to/3hZRUmR).
	  
