---
layout: post
---

- Finished the Real Python Course on modules and packages. I had signed
  up for a subscription to this site. After trying a couple of other
  courses on here I cancled my subscription, as the quality of the
  courses seem to be somewhat variable(with the majority being quite
  good, but definitely a few that at-least lack in editing and
  production value) and all of the material feels
  quite superficial. To be fair, they have really good overviews of
  topics, but also $20/month will buy you a lot of good programming
  books that will be much more indepth and that can serve as references
  rather than just an introduction to the topic. I hope that me feeling
  this way is an indicator of my growth as a programmer rather than an
  criticism of the material itself. It is nice to feel like I finally
  know enough to be able to distinguish whether a particular piece of
  material is too easy/something I already understand well, just right
  for expanding my understanding, or will require some pre-requiste
      study before I can really understand it. I will take it as a mild
      indicator of competence.

- More work on getting snippets, $\LaTeX$, markdown preview, and Conjure/Racket working in
  my Nvim setup. These are another set of suprisingly time consuming
  things to get working correctly.

- Finished `ConjureSchool` and looked over the documentation for
  `Conjure`. One of the more helpful commands that I found was
  `<localleader>cs` which starts a new racket REPL when inside of a
  Racket file inside of VIM.
