---
layout: post
---
The last month or so has been extremely busy, though rather than being
with usual holiday season stuff, I have been working a new job out
a Sipaulovi Village on the Hopi reservation. This is just a short time gig
installing heat pumps for a friends company with federal grant money from
the CARES act. It used to be that the residents of the reservations in
Northern Arizona could get free coal from the Kayenta mine, however
this ended recently with the decommissioning of the Navajo Generating
Station in Page. Coal, wood, and propane must all be trucked in, adding to
their already somewhat high cost, and it uses vastly more power to get the
same amount of heat out of space heater than from a heat pump. Arizona is
making a strong move towards solar power, so much of the electricity used
to run these will hopefully be much lower impact in the near future.
Finally, it can get hot in this area in the summer and these can also serve
as higher capacity, quieter, and more efficient air conditioners than most
people are already using. On my side, it has been a great opportunity to
get to work in a place that very few non-native people get to spend a lot
of time. The scenery is beautiful; the crew that I am working with has
remarked that the sky really does produce the brilliant, "narrow" sunsets
that you see in much authentic native painting. We have gotten to install
units in some of the clan house where members of the tribe shared some of
their stories, showed us their ceremonial garb, and invited us to view
some of their dances once the pandemic has died down. 

- Finished Chapter 3 of *Bioinformatics and Functional Genomics*. This
  chapter focused on pairwise sequence alignment, as a future project I
  may work to implement some of the described algorithms in Scheme.

- Did part of the Pairwise Sequence Alignment chapter from
  [IAB](readiab.org). This went well with the contents of the chapter
  from *Bioinformatics and Functional Genomics*.

- Read through [a Real Python article on Python Modules](https://realpython.com/python-modules-packages/#python-modules-overview).
