---
layout: post
---

- Configured NeoVim to work with my material for SICP. I have installed 
`wlangstroth/vim-racket` and `Olical/conjure`. The `vim-racket` plugin
allows Neovim recognize `.rkt` files, which in turn allows them to be
run using `Conjure`. After doing this I also went through the built-in
`:ConjureSchool` and also worked on making a cheatsheet of all of the
commands that are used by `Conjure`. Switching to a more integrated nvim
experience has left we with lots to learn, but while it initially seemed
very overwhelming, a lot of it already seems fast and very natural. The
learning curve initially seems much steeper than VS Code, but it really
lets me keep all of the things that I liked about vim, but with a much
more polished environment.

- Worked on problems 1.16 and 1.17 from SICP. The conversion from a recursive
  process to an interative one is supprisingly challenging at times. I
  think that there probably exists a more general, abstract procedure
  avaliable that would describe that problem encompassed by these two
  problems. 

- **Python Modules and Packages: An Introduction** from [Real
  Python](realpython.com) through part 8: *Python Packages*.

- Worked on getting snippets setup and working with
  'neovim/completetion'. At this point I am running `UltiSnips`, though
  whether on not that continues to be the case depends on how well I can
  get it setup with built-in LSP.

### Tomorrow's To-Do List:

- Finish `:ConjureSchool`

- Finish the module course from Real Python

- More SICP

- Exercises from *Discrete Math*.

- Finish setting up snippets, including ones for commonly referenced
  books. 

- Exercises from *Introduction to Bioinformatics and Functional
  Genomics".
