---
layout: post
---

## Q2-DADA2 + PacBio CCS Reads

The big push for today is to get
[@sixvable](https://github.com/qiime2/q2-dada2/pull/135)'s PacBio CCS read
pull request for Q2-DADA2 ready. Steps to go include: finishing [the
paper](https://academic.oup.com/nar/article/47/18/e103/5527971?login=false)
for the addition of PacBio CCS read denoising to DADA2, making a decision of
    refactoring to improve DRYness vs leaving as is to avoid monkeying with
    existing code/improving maintainability (I am leaning towards a bit of
    refactoring that produces the best of both), creating a subset of the Zymo
    dataset(as recommended by Ben Callahan, the author of DADA2 and PacBio CCS
    functionality + the accompanying paper), running the dataset through R and
    QIIME2 to ensure the same output, and writing some smoke tests that check
    that QIIME2 is getting the same results as R does (DADA2 is already tested
    extensively in R).

### Paper

This is a really accurate method, ~ 50% of 1.5 kilo-base 16S rRNA sequencing
reads were completely error free! So accurate that the author encountered too
little resolution in the reference datasets. You do have to be careful of
chemistry RSII, pre-P6-C4, and SMRT Portal generated reads do not have the
same accuracy. Also, almost no homopolymeric repeats in 16S.

The authors were able to detect differences to the strain level, as opposed to
the genus or higher level, consistently.

Oxford Nanopore generates longer but less accurate reads.

#### Advantages and Disadvantages of Sequencing Techniques:
- __Short-read__: Cheapest, per-sample depth allows for detection of rare
  community members.

- __Shotgun Metagenomics__: Species and some variant resolution(reliant on
  suitable reference datasets), can provide information
  about functional genetic potential. With deep shotgun sequencing: some
  de novo assembly of community genomes?

- __Full Length__: Combines the targeting of amplicon sequencing with the
  resolution achieved by shotgun approaches.

Could also be applied in other domains, such as generating complete oncogene
sequences, instead of just detecting partial ones, identification of unknown
patheogens, and possibly entire ~5kb 16S-ITS-23S region, which could encompass
entire viral genomes, as well as a variety of other uses.

### Producing a Subset of Data

Fornutely Benjamin Callahan produced this [awesome Github
repo](https://github.com/benjjneb/LRASManuscript) of the analysis for the
paper!

1. Retrive mock Zymo sequencing run from [NCBI Accension
   PRJNA521754](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/bioproject/?term=PRJNA521754).
   The direct download for the raw reads from the sequencer is
   [here](https://sra-pub-src-1.s3.amazonaws.com/SRR9089357/zymo_CCS_99_9.fastq.gz.1).

2. copy data strip the `.1` suffix.

3. generate manifest file

4. import:

```{bash}
qiime tools import \
--type 'SampleData[SequencesWithQuality]' \
--input-path zymo_manifest.tsv \
--output-path zymo_raw.qza \
--input-format SingleEndFastqManifestPhred33V2
```


## QIIME2 2022.2 Release Stuff

Working on pre-release activities w/Liz and Evan.

As a side note, if any `tag-dev` on busywork is red, there is a good chance
that it is because it has already been run and it does not want to do it
again.

Remember there are pre-built docs on `ghost`.

## Ancillary Tidbits

Getting a local copy of a PR:

```
git fetch $REPO_THE_PR_IS_ON pull/$PR_NUMBER/head:$DESIRED_BRANCH_NAME
git checkout $DESIRED_BRANCH_NAME
```
